# Heartbeat Monitor Application

This application works with the PPG Kernel Module and, relying on two threads that act as **producer/consumer**, it computes the mean heart rate within a given frequency. In particular, one thread read data from the (virtual) ppg sensor with a sampling frequency of 50Hz and puts it in a shared circular buffer. Instead, in order to save resources, the second thread sleeps on a conditional variable. It is waken up only when there is at least one element in the shared buffer and it moves all data produced in its internal array. When all values are collected, the consumer thread performs a 2048-point Fast Fourier Transformate, computes the Power Spectral Density and prints the heart rate in beat-per-minute.

The shared buffer between two thread works with a mutex and a conditional variable in order to guarantees concurrency. It is based on a **templated circular buffer**, so its type and static size are defined at compile time, simply changing the template parameters. I've chosen this structure in order to let the app to be as flexible as possible: the size of the buffer can be changed with respect to the frequency of read operations and device performances, in order to continue to read data with the same frequency and not to loose them during the long FFT operations. Otherwise, if we are focused on memory saving, we can choose a smaller size, but during heavier operations least recent data will be overwritten by newer ones, with sligthly less precise measurements.

For example, in the default implementation that target a Raspberry Pi 3, the ring is only 4 elements large and it is toally lossless, due to the difference of about one order of magnitude between the read operation and FFT computing time.
